{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Author:		
\b \cf0 Dirk W. Hoffmann\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 		{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:dirk.hoffmann@hs-karlsruhe.de"}}{\fldrslt dirk.hoffmann@hs-karlsruhe.de}}\
\pard\tqr\tx2040\tx2235\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 Contact:		\cf0 Hochschule Karlsruhe\
		Fakult\'e4t f\'fcr Informatik\
		Moltkestrasse 30\
		76133 Karlsruhe
\b \

\b0 \cf2 \
WWW:		{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.dirkwhoffmann.de/VirtualC64.html"}}{\fldrslt www.dirkwhoffmann.de/VirtualC64}}
\b \cf0 \

\b0 \cf2 \
Credits:		
\b \cf0 Conrad Benndorf\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 		VIC-II compatibility improvements\
\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 		Carl Douglas\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 		Cartridge support, US keyboard, \
		cleanup, bugfixes\
		\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 		Andreas Fertig\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 		SDL investigations		\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 		Benjamin Klein\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 		HID joystick integration\
\
		
\b \cf0 J\'e9r\'f4me Lang\

\b0 \cf2 		SID support and CoreAudio integration\
\pard\tqr\tx2040\tx2235\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 		Philip S. Schulz\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 		HID API investigations\
\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 		Max Ullinger\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 		Runtime and memory profiling \
		\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 I'd finally want to thank...
\b \cf0 	\
	Christian Bauer\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 	for his fabulous freeware emulator Frodo and his extensive VIC-II documentation. Frodo helped us a lot to understand the tricky details of the custom chips.\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \

\b \cf0 	Andr\'e9 Fachat\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 	for providing me with  the necessary information to understand large portions of the CIA chip behaviour and the current CIA impementation in VICE.\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \

\b \cf0 	Wolfgang Lorenz\
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf2 	for his excellent C64 test suit and his nicely written documentation of the CIA chip. It was invalueable for us to rule out many nasty bugs in our code.\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \

\b \cf0 	Andy Matuschak
\b0 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx880\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 for his great auto updater framework Sparkle 	\
\pard\tqr\tx860\tx1135\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 	
\b \cf0 	
\b0 \cf2 \
\pard\tqr\tx2040\tx2235\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 License for VirtualC64 base code:\
\
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\
\
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.\
\
Only our own original work is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License. The licenses of some libraries might impose different redistribution or general licensing terms than those stated in the GNU General Public License. Users and redistributors are hereby requested to verify these conditions and agree upon them.\
\
External licenses (Sparkle framework):\
\
Copyright (c) 2006 Andy Matuschak\
\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\
\
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\
\
Thanks to Brent Simmons, whose RSS reader class was modi\uc0\u64257 ed and used for appcast support. His class is licensed as follows:\
\
Copyright (c) 2002, Brent Simmons. \
All rights reserved. \
\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modi\uc0\u64257 cation, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 	\
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 	\
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 	\
Neither the name of ranchero.com or Brent Simmons nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without speci\uc0\u64257 c prior written permission. \
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS \'93AS IS\'94 AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,  INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;  OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER  IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \
\
This project uses software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org). This toolkit is licensed as follows: \
 ==================================================================== \
Copyright (c) 1998-2005 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved. \
\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modi\uc0\u64257 cation, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: \
 \
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \
 \
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \
 \
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgment: \'93This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)\'94 \
 \
4. The names \'93OpenSSL Toolkit\'94 and \'93OpenSSL Project\'94 must not be used to  endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org. \
\
5. Products derived from this software may not be called \'93OpenSSL\'94  nor may \'93OpenSSL\'94 appear in their names without prior written permission of the OpenSSL Project. \
 \
6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following acknowledgment: \'93This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project  for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)\'94 \
\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS\'92\'92 AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;  LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,  STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \
==================================================================== \
 \
This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com). \
 \
Original SSLeay License \
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) \
All rights reserved. \
 \
This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com). The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL. \
\
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com). \
 \
Copyright remains Eric Young\'92s, and as such any Copyright notices in the code are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package. \
 \
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modi\uc0\u64257 cation, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: \
\
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \
\
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \
\
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: \'93This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\'94. The word \'91cryptographic\'92 can be left out if the rouines from the library being used are not cryptographic related :-). \
\
4. If you include any Windows speci\uc0\u64257 c code (or a derivative thereof) from the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: \'93This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)\'94 \
\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS\'92\'92 AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \
 \
The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public Licence.] \
\
}